[Jose]
- Hi guys and welcome back.
In this video we're
going to be implementing
a new function, that
we're gonna call multiply,
and we're gonna be
writing a few tests for it
with what we know now on
boundary value analysis
and equivalence partitioning.
Let's start by writing our function,
which I'm gonna call multiply.
And what it's gonna do is it's gonna take
any number of arguments and each one
is going to be either an int or a float.
Notice that by doing *args,
which by the way you can do *values or *a
or whatever you want,
by doing that this function
will be called like this,
three, five, nine.
You can pass in any
number of arguments here.
You don't have to pass
in a list of arguments
or anything like that.
Just separate individual
arguments to this function
is what this star means in front of args.
Okay, so now we've got that,
and we're gonna do is check
if the len of args is zero,
and if it is, we're gonna
raise a value error,
and we're gonna say at least one value
to multiply must be passed.
And do make sure to use
the right brackets there.
Otherwise, we're gonna start at one,
and we're gonna iterate
over the arguments,
and we're gonna just
multiply total by arg,
and at the end we're gonna return total.
Very naive, very simple
multiplication method.
By far not the best one,
but simple enough.
However if you look at this code,
it may not be immediately obvious
everything that it does and potentially
all the different paths that
code could take through it.
So, it is always good to write some tests
when you have a function like this one,
so that you can show people
that look at the tests
everything that you
know about the function.
and also so you can set in stone
how you expect the function to behave.
That way if that changes
later on down the line,
some of your tests will fail
and you'll be able to identify exactly
what's changed in your code,
in case you didn't realise.
So, what we'll do is
we'll start by testing
a multiplication, where the values
or the argument says empty.
So, we'll say test_multiply_empty,
and then we will come here and
say with self.assertRraises
a ValueError, we will just
type multiply like that.
And you do need to import it of course.
Now if we run this it should pass
because not passing any arguments
will cause args to have a length of zero.
And then this will raise a value error.
At this point I'm gonna
enable this toggle down
on the bottom left so that
this reruns every time
I save the file.
Let's go into our second test.
Now that we've tested the empty arguments,
we should also test boundaries around it
or rather the zero
argument is the boundary,
so we should test one as well.
So, we're gonna multiply a single value.
So, we'll say that the expected is 15
and we'll say self.assertEqual,
multiply of expected should
be the same value as expected.
So, whenever you multiply a single value,
it should be the same.
So, now I'll press save.
The tests will rerun down here
and you can see six of six
passed, so this is good.
Next up we will try to multiply zero,
because this could be a boundary
or rather it is a
boundary that I've thought
could potentially behave differently
depending on the
implementation of the function.
So, we'll say test_multiply_zero,
and we will go for zero
here and type assertEqual,
multiply of expected should be expected.
What this means is if you pass in zero
to the multiply function,
it is still going to multiply whatever way
it is using to multiply by zero,
and that means you're
always gonna get zero back.
I can see how some
incorrect implementations
of a multiply function
could potentially return one
in this scenario.
Not something you would
expect but it could happen.
Next up, we are going to just test
the multiply function
does the correct thing.
So, we will go ahead and give the inputs,
which are gonna be three
and five in my case,
and the expected result
which is gonna be 15.
And then we'll say self.assertEqual,
the multiply with the inputs
will be the expected value.
Notice that I've made a
mistake here on purpose,
just to show you a couple of things.
The first one is that I saved the file
and the tests ran and one of them fails,
and you get here the error message.
So, you'll see that 15 is
not equal to three, five.
So, evidently the function
returned three, five,
and not 15, which is
what we were expecting.
So, that is because we
didn't pass in the numbers.
What we passed in is the
tuple of the numbers.
what we want to do is pass
in three and five as separate
arguments like this, and
in order to do that with
inputs, you need to do *inputs,
and that is going to
pass exactly these values
as individual arguments.
Next up, we are going to
include a zero in our inputs.
So, we will say inputs
are three, five, and zero.
And the expected result is zero.
So, a very simple test, but nonetheless
probably a necessary one.
Just in case there is a
check for zero in the inputs
or something like that,
you can think that it's quite
similar to the multiply zero.
But in this case it is
with more inputs here.
We just want to make
sure that our loop isn't
for example, ignoring zero values,
which I can see an
implementation doing potentially
if it was done incorrectly.
Next up, we are going to
multiply negative values,
and we will expect the results
to be minus 30 in this case.
So, there is another
equivalence class there,
minus five, which you
probably should test for.
You can do things like test
for double negative values
making sure it is positive and so on,
but that is probably getting too much
into does maths work in Python?
It's up to you how much, how deep
you want to go into
this with these values,
but I wouldn't put too many in there,
just enough to check for
the boundaries themselves.
Finally we are going
to multiply some floats
because that is another class here.
So, we'll do 3.0 and two,
and to make sure that
the output isn't floored
or rounded or anything like that,
so the expect is gonna be 6.0,
and we will do assertEqual
the multiply of inputs and the expected.
So, a couple more things
you could do here,
of course have different
types of inputs like strings
or tuples or lists and so on.
Potentially you may want to
check the multiply function
and make sure that these things
are only ints and floats.
You could have a type
check inside the function,
but those things are taken care of
by the type hinting.
So, as long as the developer
has type hinting enabled
when they try to call
your multiply function
with a string, for example they should
get a message saying
you know this function
only takes ints some floats.
So, you don't have to test things
that are already taken care
of by the static analysis
in this case the type hinting.
This is why type hinting is a
pretty popular thing nowadays
and it's a very useful thing
to have in your code base,
and it's something that Python
hasn't had for a long time,
at least not official support for.
So, do make sure that
you use type hinting,
especially on functions,
because they can really help you
and they can really prevent
errors down the line.
For example if you define
this multiply function
in a specific way, and
somebody uses in that way
that you don't expect,
such as by passing a string
or a tuple, you could
get some errors in here
that could easily be
avoided just by showing
the developer a nice message.
So, for now that's our tests.
If you can think of any more questions
you'd like to ask your function,
and make sure that it does it over time,
as your code changes do add those in here.
If you are thinking that
there's a lot of repetition
in these tests, you would be correct.
There is quite a lot of repetition
in the inputs and outputs
and self assertEqual.
All of these tests do the same thing.
So, there are Python libraries
to reduce this duplication,
but they are not covered in this course.
I'm sure that you can
learn about them by looking
at official documentation
and things like that.
For example a library called
hypothesis comes to mind
exactly to do that.
That's it for this video dude.
Thanks for joining me.
I'll see you on the next one.